# 1. DEFINITIONS

(A) In these Rules:
- “Affiliated Association” means an Association accorded the status of an Affiliated Association under the rules of The FA.
- “AGM” shall mean the annual general meeting held in accordance with the constitution of the Competition.
- “Club” means a club for the time being in membership of the Competition.
- “Competition” means the Rother Youth Football League.
- “Competition Match” means any match played or to be played under the jurisdiction of the Competition.
- “Contract Player” means any Player (other than a Player on a Scholarship) who is eligible to play under a written contract of employment with a Club.
- “Deposit” means a sum of money deposited with the Competition as part of the requirements of membership of the Competition.
- “Fees Tariff” means a list of fees approved by the Clubs at a general meeting to be levied by the Management Committee for any matters for which fees are payable under the Rules, as set out at Schedule A.
- “Fines Tariff” means a list of fines approved by the Clubs at a general meeting to be levied by the Management Committee for any breach of the Rules, as set out at Schedule A.
- “Ground” means the ground on which the Club’s Team(s) plays its Competition Matches.
- “Management Committee” means in the case of a Competition which is an unincorporated association, the management committee elected to manage the running of the Competition and where the Competition is incorporated it means the Board of Directors appointed in accordance with the articles of association of that company.
- “Match Officials” means the referee, the assistant referees and any fourth official appointed to a Competition Match.
- “Mini Soccer” means those participating at ages under 7s to under 10s.
- “Non Contract Player” means any Player (other than a Player on a Scholarship) who is eligible to play for a Club but has not entered into a written contract of employment.
- “Officer” means an individual who is appointed or elected to a position in a Club or Competition which requires that individual to make day to day decisions.
- “Participant” shall have the same meaning as set out in the rules of The FA from time to time.
- “Player” means any Contract Player, Non Contract Player or other player who plays or who is eligible to play for a Club.
- “Playing Season” means the period between the date on which the first competitive fixture in the Competition is played each year until the date on which the last competitive fixture in the Competition is played.
- “Rules” means these rules under which the Competition is administered. 
- “Sanctioning Authority” means the Sussex County Football Association Limited. 
- “Scholarship” means a Scholarship as set out in Rule C 3 (a) (i) of the rules of The FA.
- “Season” means the period of time between an AGM and the subsequent AGM.
- “Secretary” means such person or persons appointed or elected to carry out the administration of the Competition.
- “SGM” means a special general meeting held in accordance with the constitution of the Competition.
- “Team” means a team affiliated to a Club, including where a Club provides more than one team in the Competition inaccordance with the Rules.
- “The FA” means The Football Association Limited.
- “WGS” means the Whole Game System and the procedures for the operation thereof as determined by The FA from time to time.
- “written” or “in writing” means the representation or reproduction of words or symbols  or other information in a visible form by any method or combination of methods, whether sent or supplied in electronic form or otherwise.
- “Youth Football” means those participating at ages under 11s to under 18s.

(B) Unless stated otherwise, terms referring to natural persons are applicable to both genders. Any term in the singular applies to the plural and vice-versa.

(C) All Clubs shall adhere to the Rules.  Every Club shall be deemed, as a member of the Competition to have accepted the Rules and to have agreed to abide by the decisions of the Management Committee in relation thereto, subject to the provisions of Rule 16.

(D) The Competition will be known as ROTHER YOUTH LEAGUE.  The Clubs participating in the Competition must be members of the Competition.  A Club which ceases to exist or which ceases to be entitled to play in the Competition for any reason whatsoever shall thereupon automatically cease to be a member of the Competition.

(E) The administration of the Competition under these Rules will be carried out by the Competition acting (save where otherwise specifically mentioned herein) through the Management Committee in accordance with the rules, regulations and policies of The FA.
