# 4. ENTRY FEE, SUBSCRIPTION, DEPOSIT

(A) Applications by Clubs for admission to the Competition or the entry of an additional Team(s) from the same Club must be made in writing to the Secretary and must be accompanied by an entry fee per Team as set out in the Fees Tariff, which shall be returned in the event of non-election.

At the discretion of the voting members present applications, of which due notice has been given, may be received at the AGM or a SGM or on a date agreed by the Management Committee.

(B)	The annual subscription shall be payable in accordance with the Fees Tariff per Club/Team (where a Club has more than one Team in membership of the Competition) and shall be payable on or before 1st September in each year.

(C)	A Deposit of £100 shall be payable in accordance with the Fees Tariff per Club/Team (where a Club provides more than one Team in membership of the Competition) and shall be payable on or before 1st September in each year. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(D)	A Club shall not participate in this Competition until the entry fee, annual subscription and Deposit (if required) have been paid.

(E)	If requested by the Competition, Clubs must advise annually to the Secretary in writing by 1st September of its Sanctioning Authority affiliation number for the forthcoming Playing Season. Clubs must advise the Secretary in writing, or on the prescribed form, of details of its headquarters, its Officers and any other information required by the Competition. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.
