# 5. MANAGEMENT, NOMINATION, ELECTION

(A) The Management Committee shall comprise the Officers of the Competition and 4 members who shall all be elected at the AGM. 

(B)	Retiring Officers shall be eligible to become candidates for re-election without nomination provided that the Officer notifies the Secretary in writing not later than 1st June in each year.

All other candidates for election as Officers of the Competition or members of the Management Committee shall be nominated to the Secretary in writing, signed by the secretaries of two Clubs, not later than 1st June in each year. Names of the candidates for election shall be circulated with the notice of the AGM. In the event of there being no nomination in accordance with the foregoing for any office, nominations may be received at the AGM.

(C)	The Management Committee shall meet as and when required, save that no more than three calendar months shall pass between each meeting.

On receiving a requisition signed by two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the Management Committee the Secretary shall convene a meeting of the Management Committee.

(D)	Except where otherwise mentioned all communications shall be addressed to the Secretary who shall conduct the correspondence of the Competition and keep a record of its proceedings.

(E)	All communications received from Clubs must be conducted through their Officers and sent to the Secretary, or relevant League Officer. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(F)	Personal callers will not be permitted at the home of any member of the Management Committee unless prior arrangement has been agreed. Telephone calls to members of the Management Committee will only be permitted between the hours of 9.00am and 9.00pm. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.   
