# 7. PROTESTS, CLAIMS, COMPLAINTS, APPEALS

(A)   
- (i)	All questions of eligibility, qualification of Players or interpretations of the Rules shall be referred to the Management Committee or a sub-committee duly appointed by the Management Committee.
- (ii)	Objections relevant to the dimensions of the pitch, goals, flag posts or other facilities of the venue will not be entertained by the Management Committee unless a protest is lodged with the referee before the commencement of the Competition Match.

(B)	Except in cases where the Management Committee decide that there are special circumstances, protests and complaints (which must contain full particulars of the grounds upon which they are founded) must be lodged with the Secretary within 7 days (excluding  Sundays) of the Competition Match or occurrence to which they refer. A protest or complaint shall not be withdrawn except by permission of the Management Committee. A member of the Management Committee who is a member of any Club involved shall not be present (except as a witness or representative of his Club) when such protest or complaint is being determined.

(C)	No protest of whatever kind shall be considered by the Management Committee unless the complaining Club shall have deposited with the Secretary a sum in accordance with the Fees Tariff. This may be forfeited in whole or in part in the event of the complaining or protesting Club losing its case. The Competition shall have power to order the defaulting Club or the Club making a losing or frivolous protest or complaint to pay the expenses of the inquiry or to order that the costs to be shared by the parties.

(D)	All parties to a protest or complaint must receive a copy of the submission and must be afforded an opportunity to make a statement at least 7 days prior to the protest or complaint being heard.
- (i)	All parties must have received 7 days’ notice of the hearing should they be instructed to attend.
- (ii)	Should a Club elect to state its case in person then it should forward a deposit of £25 and indicate such when forwarding the written response.

(E)	The Management Committee shall also have power to compel any party to the protest to pay such expenses as the Management Committee shall direct.

(F)	Any appeal against a decision of the Management Committee must be lodged with the Sanctioning Authority within 14 days of the posting of the written notification of the decision causing the appeal, accompanied by a fee (as set out in the Fees Tariff), which may be forfeited in the event of the appeal not being upheld. A copy of the appeal must also be sent to the Secretary. The procedure for the appeal shall be determined by the Sanctioning Authority, in such respect the Sanctioning Authority may (but is not obliged to):
- (i)	invite submissions by the parties involved; or
- (ii)	convene a hearing to hear the appeal; or
- (iii)	permit new evidence; or
- (iv)	impose deadlines as are appropriate.

Any appeal shall not involve a rehearing of the evidence considered by the Management Committee.

(G)	No appeal can be lodged against a decision taken at an AGM or SGM unless this is on the ground of unconstitutional conduct.

(H)	If so requested by all parties concerned, the Management Committee may determine any disputes, protests, appeals, clams or complaints between two Clubs in which event both Clubs shall send a non-returnable fee, as stated in the Fines Tariff. Such determination shall be final and binding upon the parties concerned. The procedure for such determination shall be determined by the Management Committee. All misconduct cases will be sent to Sussex County FA for arbitration.

