# 8. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING

(A) The AGM shall be held not later than 15th July in each year. At this meeting the following business shall be transacted provided that at least 15 members are present and entitled to vote:-
- (i)	To receive and confirm the minutes of the preceding AGM.
- (ii)	To receive and adopt the annual report, balance sheet and statement of accounts.
- (iii)	Election of Clubs to fill vacancies.
- (iv)	Constitution of the Competition for the ensuing Season.
- (v)	Election of Officers of the Competition and the Management Committee members.
- (vi)	Appointment of auditors.
- (vii)	Alteration of Rules, if any (see Rule 14).
- (viii)	Fix the date for the commencement of the Playing Season and kick off times applicable to the Competition.
- (ix)	Fix the date for the end of the Playing Season.
- (x)	Other business of which due notice shall have been given and accepted as being relevant to an AGM.

(B)	A copy of the duly audited/verified balance sheet, statement of accounts and agenda shall be forwarded to each Club at least 14 days prior to the meeting together with any proposed Rule changes.

(C)	A signed copy of the duly audited/verified balance sheet and statement of accounts shall be sent to the Sanctioning Authority within 14 days of its adoption by the AGM.

(D)	Each Club shall be empowered to send two delegates to an AGM. Each Club shall be entitled to one vote only.  14 days’ notice shall be given of any AGM.

(E)	Clubs who have withdrawn their membership of the Competition during the Playing Season being concluded or who are not continuing membership shall be entitled to attend but shall vote only on matters relating to the Season being concluded. This provision will not apply to Clubs expelled in accordance with Rule 12.

(F)	All voting shall be conducted by a show of voting cards unless a ballot be demanded by at least 50% of the delegates qualified to vote or the Chairman so decides.

(G)	No individual shall be entitled to vote on behalf of more than one Club.

(H)	Any continuing Club must be represented at the AGM. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(I)	Officers of the Competition and Management Committee members shall be entitled to attend and vote at an AGM.

(J)	Where a Competition is an incorporated entity, the Officers of the Competition shall ensure that the Articles of Association of the Competition are consistent with the requirements of these Rules.

