# 18. MATCH RELATED RULES / QUALIFICATION OF PLAYERS
(A) 
- (i)	A Player is one who, being in all other respects eligible, has:-
  - (a)	signed a fully and correctly completed Competition registration form  in ink, countersigned by his /her parent or guardian and by an Officer     of the Club, and who has been registered with the (Registrations) Secretary 3 days prior to the Player playing and whose completed registration counterfoil has been received by the Club prior to playing in a Competition Match. The registration document must incorporate emergency contact details of the Player’s parents or guardians. These details must be available at matches and training events the Player attends within the management of the Club or Competition;
  - or
  - (b)	signed a fully and correctly completed Competition registration form  in ink on a match day prior to playing which is countersigned by his/   her parent or guardian and by an Officer of the Club and witnessed by  an Officer of the opposing Club, and submitted to the (Registrations) Secretary within two days (Sundays excluded) subsequent to the Competition Match. The Player shall not play again on a subsequent match day until the Club is in possession of the completed counterfoil. A maximum of double the team format of Players may be registered in accordance with this paragraph 18 (A) (i) (b). The registration document must incorporate emergency contact details of the Players’ parents or guardians. These details must be available at matches and training events the Player attends within the management of the Club or Competition;
  - or
  - (c)	registered through WGS.
  - Any registration form which is sent by either of the means set out at Rules 18(A) (i)(a) or (b) above that is not fully and correctly completed will be returned to the Club unprocessed. If a Club attempts to register a player via WGS but does not fully and correctly complete the necessary information via WGS, the registration will not be processed.
  - For Clubs registering Players under Rules 18 (A) (i) (a) or (b) registration forms will be provided in a format to be determined by the Competition. For Clubs registering Players via WGS (under Rule 18 (A) (i) (c)) Clubs must access WGS in order to complete the registration process.
- (ii)	Registration forms may also be submitted to the (Registrations) Secretary by electronic mail or facsimile machine prior to the Player playing in a Competition Match. The original document must be forwarded by post to the appropriate Officer of the Competition within three days of the Competition Match. 
- The registration document must incorporate a current passport-size photograph of the Player seeking registration together with confirmation that the Player’s proof of date of birth has been checked by the Club and is accurate.

Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(B)
- (i)	Contract Players are not permitted in this Competition with the exception of those Players who are registered under contract with the same Club who have a Team operating at Steps 1 to 6 of the National League System.
It is the responsibility of each Club to ensure that any Player registered to the Club has, where necessary, the required International Transfer Certificate. Clearance is required for any Player aged 10 and over crossing borders including Wales, Scotland and Ireland.
- (ii)	A Player registered with a Premier League or English Football League Academy under the Elite Player Performance Plan contained within Youth Development Rules will not be permitted to play in this Competition. Details of the Youth Development Rules are published on The FA website. A Player registered with a FA Girls’ Regional Talent Club may play in this Competition subject to the FA Programme for Excellence (Female) Regulations.
- Additionally, where Club run both academy Teams and inclusive Teams the latter would be allowed entry.  In the Management Committee's view where a 'Club' has affiliated with SCFA both as an academy and also as a non-academy, no Players that have registered for the academy Team can register for the non-academy Team.
- In most cases the Rother Youth League will accept the goodwill and trust of Clubs in the grey areas around what constitutes an academy and allow entry on the condition that this trust is repaid, and we have a fair playing field. Abuse of this trust will result in a Special General Meeting where the Management Committee will propose to expel the offending Club and not just the Team.

- The following are example of illegible Players that would fall foul of the academy Team ruling where a Club run an academy:
 - a) A Player who registers to an academy and plays for an academy and non-academy Teams at the same Club
 - b) A Player who plays in an academy game
 - c) If the Player or their parent/guardian has been told they have registered on to the academy.

- As per Competition Rules, if a Player falls within the above Clauses a, b, c and d and plays in a Rother Youth Football League Competition Match he/she will be classed as an ineligible Player and will be dealt with in accordance with Competition Rules, also if it is found that the Player has played in previous games the same rules will apply.

- (iii)	Each Team must have the following number of Players registered 7 days before the start of each Playing Season and may not have more than the maximum permitted number of players:

| FORMAT	| MINIMUM NUMBER	| MAXIMUM NUMBER	|
| ------	| --------------	| --------------	|
| 5v5	   | 5             	| 10             |
| 7v7	   | 7             	|	14             |
| 9v9	   | 9             	|	18             |
| 11v11	 | 1             	|	22             |

- Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(C)	A child who has not attained the age of 6 shall not play, and shall not be permitted or encouraged to play, in a match of any kind.

The relevant age for each Player is determined by his or her age as at midnight on 31 August of the relevant Playing Season i.e. children who are aged 6 as at midnight on 31 August in a Playing Season (together with those who attain the age of 6 during the Playing Season) will be classed as Under 7 Players for that Playing Season. Children who are aged 7 as at midnight on 31 August in a Playing Season will be classed as Under 8 Players for that Playing Season, and so on.

Notwithstanding the above, a child is permitted to play up in the age group above his or her chronological age group, irrespective of any changes of format or competition structure, save that a child who attains the age of 6 after 31 August is permitted to play only in the Under 7 age group, and may not play in the Under 8 age group, for that Playing Season.

The age groups that children are eligible to play in are set out in the table below, along with the permitted football formats for each of those age groups. Children shall not play, and shall not be permitted or encouraged to play, in a match between sides of more than the stated number of players, according to their age group:

| Age\*	| Groups\*\*	| Permitted Format (Max)	 |  Pitch Sizes (Min)	| 	|  Pitch Sizes (Max) |   | Goal Sizes\*\*\*	| Ball Size |
|----|----------|-------|----------|---------------|-----------|---------------|---------|---|
|    |          |       | Yards    | Metres        | Yards     | Metres        | Feet    |   |	
| 6 	| Under 7	 | 5v5   | 30 x 20  | 27.45 x 18.3  | 40 x 30   | 36.3 x 27.45  | 12 x 6  | 3 |
| 	  | Under 8	 | 5v5   | 30 x 20  | 27.45 x 18.3  | 40 x 30   | 36.3 x 27.45  | 12 x 6	 | 3 |
| 7 	| Under 8	 | 5v5   | 30 x 20  | 27.45 x 18.3  | 40 x 30   | 36.3 x 27.45  | 12 x 6	 | 3 |
| 	  | Under 9	 | 7v7   | 50 x 30  | 45.75 x27.45  | 60 x 40   | 54.9 x 36.6   | 12 x 6	 | 3 |
| 8	 | Under 9	 | 7v7   | 50 x 30  | 45.75 x27.45  | 60 x 40   | 54.9 x 36.6   | 12 x 6	 | 3 |
| 	  | Under 10 | 7v7   | 50 x 30  | 45.75 x27.45  | 60 x 40   | 54.9 x 36.6   | 12 x 6	 | 4 |
| 9	 | Under 10 | 7v7   | 50 x 30  | 45.75 x27.45  | 60 x 40   | 54.9 x 36.6	  | 12 x 6	 | 4 |
| 	  | Under 11 | 9v9   | 70 x 40  | 64 x 36.6     | 80 x 50   | 73.15 x 45.75 | 16 x 7	 | 4 | 
| 10	| Under 11 | 9v9   | 70 x 40  | 64 x 36.6     | 80 x 50 	 | 73.15 x 45.75 | 16 x 7	 | 4 |
|   	| Under 12 | 9v9   | 70 x 40  | 64 x 36.6     | 80 x 50 	 | 73.15 x 45.75 | 16 x 7	 | 4 |
| 11	| Under 12 | 9v9   | 70 x 40  | 64 x 36.6     | 80 x 50	  | 73.15 x 45.75 | 16 x 7	 | 4 |
|   	| Under 13 | 11v11 | 90 x 50  | 82.3 x 45.75  | 100 x 60	 | 91.44 x 54.9  | 21 x 7	 | 4 |
| 12	| Under 13 | 11v11 | 90 x 50  | 82.3 x 45.75  | 100 x 60	 | 91.44 x 54.9  | 21 x 7	 | 4 |
|    | Under 14 | 11v11 | 90 x 50  | 82.3 x 45.75  | 100 x 60	 | 91.44 x 54.9	 | 21 x 7	 | 4 |
| 13	| Under 14 | 11v11 | 90 x 50  | 82.3 x 45.75  | 100 x 60 	| 91.44 x 54.9	 | 21 x 7	 | 4 |
|    | Under 15 | 11v11 | 90 x 50  | 82.3 x 45.75  | 110 x 70	 | 100.58 x 64	  | 24 x 8	 | 5 |
| 14	| Under 15 | 11v11 | 90 x 50  | 82.3 x 45.75  | 110 x 70	 | 100.58 x 64	  | 24 x 8	 | 5 |
|    | Under 16 | 11v11 | 90 x 50  | 82.3 x 45.75  | 110 x 70	 | 100.58 x 64	  | 24 x 8	 | 5 |
| 15 | Under 16 | 11v11 | 90 x 50  | 82.3 x 45.75  | 110 x 70	 | 100.58 x 64	  | 24 x 8	 | 5 |
| 	  | Under 17 | 11v11 | 100 x 50	| 91.44 x 45.75 | 130 x 100	| 118.87 x 91.44| 24 x 8	 | 5 |
| 	  | Under 18 | 11v11 | 100 x 50	| 91.44 x 45.75	| 130 x 100	| 118.87 x 91.44| 24 x 8	 | 5 |
| 16 | Under 17 | 11v11 | 100 x 50	| 91.44 x 45.75	| 130 x 100	| 118.87 x 91.44| 24 x 8	 | 5 |
|    | Under 18 | 11v11 | 100 x 50	| 91.44 x 45.75	| 130 x 100	| 118.87 x 91.44| 24 x 8	 | 5 |
|    | Open Age | 11v11 | 100 x 50	| 91.44 x 45.75	| 130 x 100	| 118.87 x 91.44| 24 x 8	 | 5 |


1. \*Age on 31 August of the relevant Playing Season
2. \*\*Eligable Age Groups
3. \*\*\*Recommended Goal Sizes

(D)	A fee as set out in the Fees Tariff shall be paid by each Club/Team for each Player registered, if applicable.

(E)	The Management Committee shall decide all registration disputes taking into account the following.
- (i)	A Player shall not be permitted to register for more than one Club subject to the exceptions set out in Rule 18 (E)(iii) below.
- (ii)	In the event of a Player signing a registration form or having a registration submitted for more than one Club priority of registration shall decide for which Club the Player shall be registered. The Secretary shall notify the Club last applying to register the Player of the fact of the previous registration subject to the exceptions set out in Rule 18 (E)(iii) below.
- (iii)	A Player is only permitted to register for more than one Club provided that:
-- a.	The Team(s) in which the Player plays in are not in the same age group; or
-- b.	Except for the purpose of a transfer.
-- And the Player meets the requirements in Rule 18(C).

(F)	It shall be a breach of these Rules for a Player to:-
- (i)	Play for more than one Team in the same age group in the Competition in the same Playing Season without first being transferred.
- (ii)	Having registered for one Club in the Competition, register for another Club in the Competition in that Playing Season, except if the provisions set out in Rule 18 (E)(iii) apply.
- (iii)	Submit a signed registration form or submit a registration through WGS for registration that the Player had willfully neglected to accurately or fully complete.
- Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(G)
- (i)	The Management Committee shall have the power to accept the registration of any Player subject to the provisions of Rule 18(G)(ii) and (iii) below.
- (ii)	The Management Committee shall have power to refuse, cancel or suspend the registration of any Player, the exercise of such power being without prejudice to the Management Committee’s ability to fine a Club at its discretion (in accordance with the Fines Tariff) that has been charged and found guilty of registration irregularities (subject to Rule 7).
- (iii)	The Management Committee shall have the power to refuse or cancel the registration of any Player charged and found guilty of undesirable conduct (subject to Rule 7) subject to the right of appeal to the Sanctioning Authority or The FA. Where the Management Committee does not have enough information to enable it to make a decision pursuant to the above power, it may apply, in its absolute discretion, to the Sanctioning Authority or The FA for further information.
Undesirable conduct shall mean an incident of repeated proven misconduct, which may deter a Participant from being involved in this Competition.
- (iv)	For a Player who has previously had a registration removed in accordance with Rule 18(G)(iii) but has a registration accepted at the expiry of exclusion will be considered to be under a probationary period of 12 months. Whilst under a probationary period, should the Player commit a further act of proven misconduct under the jurisdiction of the Competition, (excluding standard dismissals), the Competition would be empowered to consider a further charge of bringing the Competition into disrepute.

(Note: Action under Rule 18(G)(iii) shall only be taken against a Player in cases of the Player bringing the Competition into disrepute and will in any event be subject to an appeal to the Sanctioning Authority or The FA. All decisions must include the period of restriction. For the purpose of this Rule, bringing the Competition into disrepute can only be considered where the Player has received in excess of 112 days’ suspension, or 10 matches in match based discipline, in any competition (and is not restricted to the Competition) in a period of two years or less from the date of the first offence.)

(H)	Subject to compliance with FA Rule C2(a) when a Club wishes to register a player who is already registered with another club it shall submit a transfer form (in a format as determined by the Competition) to the Competition accompanied by a fee as set out in the Fees Tariff. Such transfer shall be referred by the Competition to the club for which the player is registered. Should this club object to the transfer it should state its objections in writing to the Competition and to the player concerned within 3 days of receipt of the notification. Upon receipt of the Club’s consent, or upon its failure to give written objection within 3 days, the Secretary may, on behalf of the Management Committee, transfer the player who shall be deemed eligible to play for the new Club from such date or 7days after receipt of such transfer.
In the event of an objection to a transfer the matter shall be referred to the Management Committee for a decision.

(I)	A Player may not be registered for a Club nor transferred to another Club in the Competition after [date] except by special permission of the Management Committee.

(J)	A Club shall keep a list of the Players it registers and a record of all matches in which those Players have played for the Club, and shall produce such records upon demand by the Management Committee.
In the event a Club has more than one Team in an age group, each Team must be clearly identifiable but not designated ‘A’ or ‘B’ or 1st or 2nd. In such cases, Players will be registered for one Team only. A Player so registered will be allowed to play for his Club in a younger or older age group within the provisions of Rule 18(C).

(K)	A register containing the names of all Players registered for each Club, with the date of registration, shall be kept by the (Registrations) Secretary and shall be open to the inspection of an Officer of the Club at all Management Committee meetings or at other times mutually arranged. Registrations are valid for one Playing Season only.
In the event of a Non Contract Player changing his status to that of a Contract Player with the same Club, another Club in the Competition or with a club in another competition his registration as a Non Contract Player will automatically be cancelled and declared void unless the Club conforms to the exception detailed in Rule 18(B)(i).

(L)	A Player shall not be eligible to play for a Team  in any special championship, promotion or relegation deciding Competition Match (as specified in Rule 22(A)) unless the Player has played 5 Competition Matches for that Team in the current Playing Season.

(M)	A Team shall not include more than 1 Players who has/have taken part in a more senior Competition Matches during the current Playing Season unless a period of 21 days has elapsed since they last played.
For the purpose of this Rule a senior competition(s) is under 18’s or older
Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(N)
- (i)	Subject to Rule 18(N)(ii), any Club found to have played an ineligible Player in a Competition Match or Matches where points are awarded shall have the points gained from that Competition Match deducted from its record, up to a maximum of 12 points, and have levied upon it a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.
- (ii)	The Management Committee may vary the sanction as relates to the deduction of points set out at Rule 18(N)(i) only in circumstances where the ineligibility is due to the failure to obtain an International Transfer Certificate or where the ineligibility is related to the Player’s status.
- (iii)	Where a Club is found to have played an ineligible Player in accordance with Rule 18(N)(i) above, the Management Committee may also, at its discretion:
-- (a)	Award the points available in the Competition Match in question to the opponents, subject to the Competition Match not being ordered to be replayed; or
-- (b)	Levy penalty points against the Club in default; or
-- (c)	Order that such Competition Match or Matches be replayed (on such terms as are decided by the Management Committee).

(The following clause applies to Competitions involving Players in full-time secondary education):-

(O)
- (i)	Priority must be given at all times to school and school organisations activities. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.
- (i)	The availability of children must be cleared with their head teacher (except for Sunday league competitions).
- (ii)	A child under the age of 15 as at midnight on 31 August in the relevant Playing Season, shall not be permitted to play in a Competition Match during that Playing Season where any other Player is older or younger than that child by two years or more.
