# 20. PLAYING SEASON.  CONDITIONS OF PLAY, TIMES OF KICK-OFF, POSTPONEMENTS, SUBSTITUTES

(A) All Competition Matches shall be played in accordance with the Laws of the Game as determined by the International Football Association Board or, for Mini-Soccer, and 9v9 football, the Rules as set down by The FA.

Clubs must take all reasonable precautions to keep their Grounds in a playable condition. All Competition Matches shall be played on pitches deemed suitable by the Management Committee. If through any fault of the home Team a Competition Match has to be replayed, the Management Committee shall have power to order the venue to be changed.

The Management Committee shall have power to decide whether a pitch and/or facilities are suitable for Competition Matches and to order the Club concerned to play its Competition Matches on another ground.

Football Turf Pitches (3G) are allowed in this Competition provided they meet the required performance standards and are listed on the FA’s Register of Football Turf Pitches. All Football Turf Pitches used must  be tested (by a FIFA accredited test institute) every three years and the results passed to The FA. The FA will give a decision on the suitability for use and add the pitch to the Register.

The home Club is also responsible for advising Participants of footwear requirements when confirming match arrangements in accordance with Rule 20(C).

All Competition Matches shall have a duration as set out below unless a shorter time is mutually arranged by the two Clubs in consultation with the referee prior to the commencement of the Competition Match, and in any event shall be of equal halves.

Competition Matches should be played in accordance with the Laws appropriate to the relevant age group, as laid down by The FA, as detailed below.


| Age Group	| Minimum duration of play per half (minutes)	| Maximum duration of play per half (minutes)	| Maximum playing time in one day in all organized development fixtures (minutes)	| Maximum playing time in one day in all tournaments and trophy events/festivals (minutes)	| Competition structure	|
| ---------------	| --------------- | ---------------	| ---------------	| --------------- | ---------------	|
| Under 7 and Under 8   | 10 | 20 | 40 | 60  | Development focused with a maximum of 3 trophy events per season over 2 week periods  (6 weeks)	|
| Under 9 and Under 10  | 20 | 25 | 60 | 90  | Development focused with a maximum of 3 trophy events per season over 4 week periods  (12 weeks)	|
| Under 11              | 20 | 30 | 80 | 120 | Development focused with a maximum of 3 trophy events per season over 6 week periods  (18 weeks)	|
| Under 12              | 20 | 30 | 80 (if applicable) | 120 | Any varieties including one season long league table	|
| Under 13 and Under 14 | 25 | 35 | 100 | 150 | Any varieties including one season long league table	|
| Under 15 and Under 16 | 25 | 40 | 100 | 150 | Any varieties including one season long league table	|
| Under 17 and Under 18 | 25 | 45 | 120 | 180 | Any varieties including one season long league table	|

For the purpose of this Competition, the maximum playing time per half as stated above will be used.          

For round robin/trophy events, the maximum duration of play per half cannot be exceeded, but the minimum duration of play per half may be adjusted.

For trophy events, the Competition may award mementos.

The times of kick-off shall be fixed at the AGM and can only be altered by the mutual consent of the two competing Clubs prior to the scheduled date of the Competition Match with written notification given to the  Competition at least 7 days prior.

Referees must order Competition Matches to commence at the appointed time and must report all late starts to the Competition.

The home Team must provide goal nets, corner flags and at least two footballs fit for play and the referee shall make a report to the Competition if the footballs are unsuitable. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(C)	Except by permission of the Management Committee all Competition Matches must be played on the dates originally fixed but priority shall be given to The FA and parent County Association Cup Competitions. All other matches must be considered secondary. Clubs may mutually agree to bring forward a Competition Match with the consent of the (Fixtures) Secretary. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

In the case of a revised fixture date, the Clubs must be given by the Competition 5 clear days’ notice of the Competition Match (unless otherwise mutually agreed).

(D)	An Officer of the home Club must give notice of full particulars of the location of, and access to, the Ground and time of kick-off to the Match Officials and an Officer  of the opposing Club at least 5 clear days prior to the playing of the Competition Match. If not so provided, the away Club shall seek such details and report the circumstances to the Competition. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(E)	The minimum and  maximum number of Players that will constitute a Team for a Competition Match is as follows:


| FORMAT	| MINIMUM NUMBER	| MAXIMUM NUMBER	|
| ------	| --------------- | ---------------	|
| 5v5	    | 4	              | 10             	|
| 7v7	    | 5	              | 14             	|
| 9v9	    | 6	              | 18             	|
| 11v11	  | 7	              | 22             	|

Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(F)
- (i)	In competitions where points are awarded, home and away matches shall be played. In the event of a Club failing to keep its engagement the Management Committee shall have the power to impose a fine (in accordance with the Fines Tariff), deduct points from the defaulting Club, award the points from the Competition Match in question to the opponents, order the defaulting Club to pay any reasonable expenses incurred by the opponents or otherwise deal with them except the award of goals. Notwithstanding the foregoing home and away provision, the Management Committee shall have power to order a Competition Match to be played on a neutral ground or on the opponent’s Ground if they are satisfied that such action is warranted by the circumstances.
- (ii)	Any Club unable to fulfil a fixture or  where  a  Competition Match  has  been  postponed  for  any reason must, without delay, give notice to the (Fixtures) Secretary, the Competition Referees Appointments Secretary, the secretary of the opposing Club and the Match Officials.
- (iii)	In the event of a Competition Match not being played or abandoned owing to causes over which neither Club has control, it should be played in its entirety on a date to be mutually agreed by the two Clubs and approved by the Management Committee. Failing such agreement and notification to the (Fixtures) Secretary within 2 days the Management Committee shall have the power to order the Competition Match to be played on a named date or on or before a given date. Where it is to the advantage of the Competition and the Clubs involved agree, the Management Committee shall also be empowered to order the score at the time of an abandonment to stand. Providing gate money is taken and retained the visiting Club shall receive their actual standard class rail or bus fares or the equivalent for 2 persons, or car allowance at 30p per mile for transporting 2 persons, or hire charge of a coach (receipt to be submitted). The residue (if any) to be equally divided between the two Clubs after deducting the cost of advertising, printing, posting, police and Match Officials charges. The home Club shall take the whole of the proceeds of the second Competition Match.
- Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.
- (iv)	The Management Committee shall review all Competition Matches abandoned in cases where it is consequent upon the conduct of either or both Teams.  Where it is to the advantage of the Competition and does no injustice to either Club, the Management Committee shall be empowered to order the score at the time of the abandonment to stand. In all cases where the Management Committee are satisfied that a Competition Match was abandoned owing to the conduct of one Team or its Club member(s) they shall be empowered to award the points for the Competition Match to the opponent. In cases where a Competition Match has been abandoned owing to the conduct of both Teams or their Club member(s), the Management Committee shall rule that neither Team will be awarded any points for that Competition Match and it shall not be replayed.  No fine(s) can be applied by the Management Committee for an abandoned Competition Match.
- (v)	The Management Committee shall review any Competition Match that has taken place where either or both Teams were under a suspension imposed upon them by The FA or Affiliated Association. In each case the Team that was under suspension would be dealt with in the same manner as if they had participated with ineligible players in accordance with Rule 18(N)(i) above. Where both Teams were under suspension the Competition Match must be declared null and void and shall not be replayed.         
- (vi)	If the Management Committee deem that due to exceptional circumstances the fixtures in any Division are unlikely to be completed before the end of the season it may order certain matches to be played on weekdays and/or to play “Double Header” fixtures. A “Double Header” fixture will consist of two matches on the same day between the same two teams played on the same ground, which will be determined by the Management Committee. Both matches would be of equal time with the two Clubs involved agreeing the time to be played which must be no less than half the normal full time for that Division’s matches and no more than the normal full time for that Division’s matches plus 20 minutes. The half time interval shall be of ten minutes duration and there shall be an interval of at least thirty minutes between the end of the first match and the start of the second match. Double Header” fixtures shall not apply to Mini-Soccer Divisions. 

(G)	A Club may at its discretion and in accordance with the Laws of the Game use substitute Players in any Competition Match.

Where a Competition does not allow return substitutes:

For Under 17s and Under 18s – a Club may name up to 5 substitute Players of whom not more than 5 may be used. 

Where a Competition does allow return substitutes:

For Under 11s - Under 16s – a Club may use unlimited substitutes from 5 substitute Players. A Player who has been substituted becomes a substitute and may replace any Player at any time subject to the substitution being carried out in accordance with Law 3 of the Laws of Association Football.

For Mini-Soccer – any number of substitutions may be used at any time with the permission of the referee. Entry onto the field of play will only be allowed during a stoppage in play. A Player who has been replaced may return to play as a substitute for another Player. A Team must not have a match day squad greater than double the size of its team in an age group.

In Youth Football only, the referee shall be informed of the names of the substitute Players not later than 10  minutes before the start of the Competition Match and a Player not so named may not take part in that Competition Match.

A Player who has named as a substitute before the start of that Competition Match but does not actually play in the game shall not be considered to have been a Player in that Competition Match within the meaning of Rule 18 of this Competition.

(H)	The half time interval shall be of 5 minutes’ duration, but it shall not exceed 15 minutes. The half time interval may only be altered with the consent of the referee.

(I)	The Teams taking part in Under 7s to Under 11 or Youth Football shall identify a Team captain who may/shall  wear an armband and shall have a responsibility to offer support in the management of the on-field discipline of his/her teammates. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(J)	With the exception of cup finals, kick times are to be between the hours of 9.30am and 12.30pm unless agreement is made between the opposing team. Teams are not permitted to start travelling before 8am in order to arrive at the kick off location with suitable warming up time prior to kick off. Kick off times must therefore be appropriate to the distance travelled. Teams have the right to request a kick off time after 12.30 but must give notification to the opposition and fixtures secretary 2 weeks in advance.
