# 21. REPORTING RESULTS
(A) The (Registration/Fixtures) Secretary must receive within 3 days of the date played, the result of each Competition Match in the prescribed manner. This must include the forename(s) and surname of the Team Players (in block letters) and also the referee markings required by Rule 23, or any other information required by the Competition. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(B)	The Home Club/both Clubs shall telephone/SMS/email/notify the result of each Competition Match to the Fixtures Secretary by 6pm on the same day. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(C)	The match result notification, correctly completed, shall be signed by an Officer of the Club, or as prescribed by the Competition. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.

(D)	The Competition and Clubs are permitted to collect but NOT publish results or any grading tables for fixtures involving Under 7s, Under 8s, Under 9s, Under 10s, and Under 11s. Any Competition failing to abide by this Rule will be dealt with by the Sanctioning Authority, and any Club failing to abide by this Rule will be fined in accordance with the Fines Tariff. The Competition and Clubs are permitted to collect and publish results for trophy events.

(E)	Completed match cards on the WGS must be submitted by 6pm on the following Tuesday after a weekend match or 4 days after mid-week fixture.. Failure to comply with this Rule will result in a fine in accordance with the Fines Tariff.
