# 26.  LEAGUE CUP RULES

The League Cup competitions, when operated, shall be called : (i) Under 10 Challenge Cup, (ii) Under 11 BeSure Security Systems Cup, (iii) Under 12 Wayne Russell Cup, (iv) Under 13 Top Flight Trophy, (v) Under 14 BeSure Security Systems Cup, (vi) Under 15 Challenge Cup, (vii) Under 16 Laurie Webber Cup, and (viii) Under 17 Challenge Cup.

Entry to these Cup competitions shall be open to all eligible Teams participating in the Competition.

The draw for these Cup competitions shall be made at the beginning of every Playing Season, in the presence of at least two (2) members of the Management Committee and two (2) representatives of member Clubs.

Teams drawn first shall be regarded as the home side.

The finals shall be played, wherever possible, on a neutral ground with a neutral Referee and Assistant Referees which shall be provided by the Competition.

Competition-appointed Referee and Assistant Referee fees shall be as per normal Competition Rules.

The duration of Cup games shall be as per normal Competition Rules.

In the event of the scores being level at the end of normal time, extra time shall be played.  If the tie is still undecided at the end of extra time, the tie shall be settled by the taking of penalty kicks, in accordance with the Laws of the Game.

When required, the duration of extra time shall be:
-	U10 & U11 – Five (5) minutes each way;
-	U12-U16 – Ten (10) minutes each way;
-	U17 – Fifteen (15) minutes each way.

Qualification and eligibility of players in Cup fixtures shall be the same as for Competition fixtures.

Fines for fielding an ineligible player shall be as set-out in the Fines Tariff.

To play in either a semi-final or a final of a Cup, a registered Player must first have played in a minimum of three (3) matches in the Competition in the Playing Season.  Failure to adhere to this Rule will render the offending Player(s) being treated as ineligible.  In such circumstances, the tie will be awarded to the opposing Team and the offending Team shall be fined in accordance with the Fines Tariff and otherwise dealt with at the discretion of the Management Committee.
