# 36. SAFEGUARDING CHILDREN POLICY

Every child or young person who plays or participates in football should be able to take part in an enjoyable and safe environment and be protected from abuse. This is the responsibility of every adult involved in football, thus every Club is required to endorse and adhere to The Sussex County Football Association’s Safeguarding Children Policy. 

The Association recognises its responsibility to safeguard the welfare of children and young people who play or participate in football by protecting them from abuse and harm. The Association is committed to working to provide a safe environment for all children and young people to participate in the sport to the best of their abilities for as long as they choose to do so.
 
The Association recognises that the terms ‘child or young person’, ‘abuse’ and ‘harm’ are open to interpretation and challenge but for the purpose of this Safeguarding Children policy they shall be defined as follows: 

__A child or young person:__ ‘anyone who has not yet reached their 18th birthday.’ 

__Abuse:__ ‘a violation of an individual’s human or civil rights by any other person or persons and, for the purposes of safeguarding children, shall include physical abuse, emotional abuse, sexual abuse, neglect, bullying and hazing.’ 

__Harm:__ ‘Ill treatment and forms of ill treatment (including sexual abuse and forms of ill-treatment which are not physical) and also the impairment of or an avoidable deterioration in physical or mental health and the impairment of physical, intellectual, emotional, social or behavioural development.’ 

‘Harm’ may be caused by acts of commission and acts of omission. 

The Safeguarding Children Policy is supported by The Association’s Respect programme to address verbal abuse and bullying of youngsters by parents and coaches on the side-lines. The Association’s __Safeguarding Children Policy Principles__ are that: 

•	The child’s welfare is, and must always be, the paramount consideration 

•	All children and young people have a right to be protected from abuse regardless of their age, gender, disability, culture, language, race, faith, belief or sexual orientation

•	All suspicions and allegations of abuse will be taken seriously and responded to swiftly and appropriately; and

•	Working in partnership with other organisations, children and young people and their parents and carers is essential.

The Association is committed to working in partnership with the Police, Children’s Services Departments, Local Safeguarding Children’s Boards (LSCB) and the Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) in accordance with their procedures. This is essential to enable these organisations to carry out their statutory duties to investigate concerns and protect all children and young people. 

The Association’s Safeguarding Children Policy is in response to government legislation and guidance, developed to safeguard the welfare and development of children and young people. 

Clubs and Leagues with youth teams must appoint a Welfare Officer in line with The Association affiliation requirements. A Club’s Welfare Officer must sit on the management committee of that Club. 

All League and Club Welfare Officers are expected to abide by the Code of Conduct for volunteer Welfare Officers.

Full details can be found at www.sussexfa.com

